MODULE 1:-

Cybersecurity:-Cybersecurity, or security, is the practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.
-For example, requiring complex passwords to access sites and services improves confidentiality by making it much more difficult for a threat actor to compromise them. A threat actor is any person or group who presents a security risk.

External treats:-An external threat is someone outside of the organization trying to gain access to private information, networks or devices.

Internal treats:-An internal threat comes from current or former employees, external vendors, or trusted partners. Often these internal threats are accidental, such as an employee clicking on a compromised link in an email. Other times, the internal actor intentionally engages in activities such as unauthorized data access or abusing systems for personal use.

Benefits Of Security
-Security protects against external and internal threats. An external threat is someone outside of the organization trying to gain access to private information, networks or devices.
Play video starting at :2:16 and follow transcript An internal threat comes from current or former employees, external vendors, or trusted partners. Often these internal threats are accidental, such as an employee clicking on a compromised link in an email. Other times, the internal actor intentionally engages in activities such as unauthorized data access or abusing systems for personal use.

-Experienced security professionals will help organizations mitigate or reduce the impact of threats like these.

-Security teams also ensure an organization meets regulatory compliance, or laws and guidelines, that require the implementation of specific security standards.

-Ensuring that organizations are in compliance may allow them to avoid fines and audits, while also upholding their ethical obligation to protect users.

-Security teams also maintain and improve business productivity. By establishing a plan for business continuity, security teams allow people to do their jobs, even in the case of something like a data breach.

-Being security conscious can also reduce expenses associated with risks, such as recovering from data loss or operational downtime, and potentially avoiding fines. The last benefit of security that we'll discuss is maintaining brand trust. If services or customer data are compromised, this can lower trust in the organization, damage the brand, and hurt the business in the long term. Loss of customer trust may also lead to less revenue for the business.


After completing this certificate program, here are some job titles you may want to search for:
-Security analyst or specialist
-Cybersecurity analyst or specialist
-Security operation center or SOC analyst
-Information security analyst.

what do security analysts do? 
- Security analysts are responsible for monitoring and protecting information and systems.

-Now, we'll discuss three primary responsibilities of a security analyst, starting with protecting computer and network systems. Protecting computer and network systems requires an analyst to monitor an organization's internal network. If a threat is detected, then an analyst is generally the first to respond. Analysts also often take part in exercises to search for weaknesses in an organization's own systems.

-For example, a security analyst may contribute to penetration testing or ethical hacking. The goal is to penetrate or hack their own organization's internal network to identify vulnerabilities and suggest ways to strengthen their security measures.

-Think of it like this. After you lock your car, you check the door handles to make sure no one can access any valuables you keep inside.

-Security analysts also proactively work to prevent threats from happening in the first place. One way they do this is by working with information technology, or IT, teams to install prevention software for the purposes of identifying risks and vulnerabilities.

-Analysts may also be involved in software and hardware development. They'll often work with development teams to support product security by setting up appropriate processes and systems to meet the organization's data protection needs.

-The last task we'll discuss is conducting periodic security audits. A security audit is a review of an organization's security records, activities, and other related documents. For example, an analyst may examine in-house security issues, such as making sure that confidential information, like individual computer passwords, isn't available to all employees.

-Security analysts are an important part of any organization. Their daily tasks protect small businesses, large companies, nonprofit organizations, and government agencies. They also help to ensure that the people served by those organizations remain safe.

Common cybersecurity terminology
As you’ve learned, cybersecurity (also known as security) is the practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation. In this reading, you’ll be introduced to some key terms used in the cybersecurity profession. Then, you’ll be provided with a resource that’s useful for staying informed about changes to cybersecurity terminology.

Key cybersecurity terms and concepts
There are many terms and concepts that are important for security professionals to know. Being familiar with them can help you better identify the threats that can harm organizations and people alike. A security analyst or cybersecurity analyst focuses on monitoring networks for breaches. They also help develop strategies to secure an organization and research information technology (IT) security trends to remain alert and informed about potential threats. Additionally, an analyst works to prevent incidents. In order for analysts to effectively do these types of tasks, they need to develop knowledge of the following key concepts. 

Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.

Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.

A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.

An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.

Network security is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.

Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are prokperly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users. The cloud is a network made up of a collection of servers or computers that store resources and data in remote physical locations known as data centers that can be accessed via the internet. Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that specifically focuses on the protection of data, applications, and infrastructure in the cloud.

Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. These tasks can include:

Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains)

Reviewing web traffic 

Alerting suspicious activity

Key takeaways
Understanding key technical terms and concepts used in the security field will help prepare you for your role as a security analyst. Knowing these terms can help you identify common threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. To explore a variety of cybersecurity terms, visit the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology glossary
. Or use your browser to search for high-quality, reliable cybersecurity glossaries from research institutes or governmental authorities. Glossaries are available in multiple languages. 

Core Skills For Cyber Security Professional
Transferable skills:

-Let's discuss some core transferable skills you may already have that will benefit you in a career as a security analyst. Communication is a transferable skill for a security analyst. They will often need to describe certain threats, risks, or vulnerabilities to people who may not have a technical background.

-For example, security analysts may be tasked with interpreting and communicating policies and procedures to other employees. Or analysts may be asked to report findings to their supervisors, so the appropriate actions can be taken to secure the organization.

-Another transferable skill is collaboration. Security analysts often work in teams with engineers, digital forensic investigators, and program managers. For example, if you are working to roll out a new security feature, you will likely have a project manager, an engineer, and an ethical hacker on your team. Security analysts also need to be able to analyze complex scenarios that they may encounter. For example, a security analyst may need to make recommendations about how different tools can support efficiency and safeguard an organization's internal network.

-The last transferable skill that we'll discuss is problem-solving. Identifying a security problem and then diagnosing it and providing solutions is a necessary skill to keep business operations safe. Understanding threat actors and identifying trends can provide insight on how to handle future threats.

Technical Skills:

-Okay, now that we've covered some important transferable skills, let's discuss some technical skills that security analysts need to develop. A basic understanding of programming languages is an important skill to develop because security analysts can use programming to automate tasks and identify error messages.

-Like learning any other language, learning a programming language may seem challenging at first. However, this certificate program assumes no prior programming experience, so we'll start at the very beginning and provide several opportunities for hands-on practice with languages like Python and SQL.

-Another important technical skill is knowing how to use security information and event management, or SIEM, tools. Security professionals use SIEM tools to identify and analyze security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. For example, a SIEM tool may alert you that an unknown user has accessed the system. In the event of an unknown user accessing the system, you may use computer forensics to investigate the incident.

-Now, let's discuss computer forensics. Similar to an investigator and a forensic scientist working in the criminal justice system, digital forensic investigators will attempt to identify, analyze, and preserve criminal evidence within networks, computers, and electronic devices.


Transferable and technical cybersecurity skills
Previously, you learned that cybersecurity analysts need to develop certain core skills to be successful at work. Transferable skills are skills from other areas of study or practice that can apply to different careers. Technical skills may apply to several professions, as well; however, they typically require knowledge of specific tools, procedures, and policies. In this reading, you’ll explore both transferable skills and technical skills further.

Transferable skills
You have probably developed many transferable skills through life experiences; some of those skills will help you thrive as a cybersecurity professional. These include:

Communication: As a cybersecurity analyst, you will need to communicate and collaborate with others. Understanding others’ questions or concerns and communicating information clearly to individuals with technical and non-technical knowledge will help you mitigate security issues quickly. 

Problem-solving: One of your main tasks as a cybersecurity analyst will be to proactively identify and solve problems. You can do this by recognizing attack patterns, then determining the most efficient solution to minimize risk. Don't be afraid to take risks, and try new things. Also, understand that it's rare to find a perfect solution to a problem. You’ll likely need to compromise.

Time management: Having a heightened sense of urgency and prioritizing tasks appropriately is essential in the cybersecurity field. So, effective time management will help you minimize potential damage and risk to critical assets and data. Additionally, it will be important to prioritize tasks and stay focused on the most urgent issue.

Growth mindset: This is an evolving industry, so an important transferable skill is a willingness to learn. Technology moves fast, and that's a great thing! It doesn't mean you will need to learn it all, but it does mean that you’ll need to continue to learn throughout your career. Fortunately, you will be able to apply much of what you learn in this program to your ongoing professional development.

Diverse perspectives: The only way to go far is together. By having respect for each other and encouraging diverse perspectives and mutual respect, you’ll undoubtedly find multiple and better solutions to security problems. 

Technical skills
There are many technical skills that will help you be successful in the cybersecurity field. You’ll learn and practice these skills as you progress through the certificate program. Some of the tools and concepts you’ll need to use and be able to understand include: 

Programming languages: By understanding how to use programming languages, cybersecurity analysts can automate tasks that would otherwise be very time consuming. Examples of tasks that programming can be used for include searching data to identify potential threats or organizing and analyzing information to identify patterns related to security issues. 

Security information and event management (SIEM) tools: SIEM tools collect and analyze log data, or records of events such as unusual login behavior, and support analysts’ ability to monitor critical activities in an organization. This helps cybersecurity professionals identify and analyze potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities more efficiently.

Intrusion detection systems (IDSs): Cybersecurity analysts use IDSs to monitor system activity and alerts for possible intrusions. It’s important to become familiar with IDSs because they’re a key tool that every organization uses to protect assets and data. For example, you might use an IDS to monitor networks for signs of malicious activity, like unauthorized access to a network.

Threat landscape knowledge: Being aware of current trends related to threat actors, malware, or threat methodologies is vital. This knowledge allows security teams to build stronger defenses against threat actor tactics and techniques. By staying up to date on attack trends and patterns, security professionals are better able to recognize when new types of threats emerge such as a new ransomware variant. 

Incident response: Cybersecurity analysts need to be able to follow established policies and procedures to respond to incidents appropriately. For example, a security analyst might receive an alert about a possible malware attack, then follow the organization’s outlined procedures to start the incident response process. This could involve conducting an investigation to identify the root issue and establishing ways to remediate it.

CompTIA Security+
In addition to gaining skills that will help you succeed as a cybersecurity professional, the Google Cybersecurity Certificate helps prepare you for the 
CompTIA Security+ exam
, the industry leading certification for cybersecurity roles. You’ll earn a dual credential when you complete both, which can be shared with potential employers. After completing all eight courses in the Google Cybersecurity Certificate, you will unlock a 30% discount for the CompTIA Security+ exam and additional practice materials.

Key takeaways
Understanding the benefits of core transferable and technical skills can help prepare you to successfully enter the cybersecurity workforce. Throughout this program, you’ll have multiple opportunities to develop these and other key cybersecurity analyst skills.

The importance of cybersecurity:
-Security is essential for ensuring an organization's business continuity and ethical standing. There are both legal implications and moral considerations to maintaining an organization's security. A data breach, for example, affects everyone that is associated with the organization. This is because data losses or leaks can affect an organization's reputation as well as the lives and reputations of their users, clients, and customers. By maintaining strong security measures, organizations can increase user trust. This may lead to financial growth and ongoing business referrals.

-Personally identifiable information, known as PII, is any information used to infer an individual's identity. PII includes someone's full name, date of birth, physical address, phone number, email address, internet protocol, or IP address and similar information.

-Sensitive personally identifiable information, known as SPII, is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines and may include social security numbers, medical or financial information, and biometric data, such as facial recognition. If SPII is stolen, this has the potential to be significantly more damaging to an individual than if PII is stolen.

-PII and SPII data are key assets that a threat actor will look for if an organization experiences a breach. When a person's identifiable information is compromised, leaked, or stolen, identity theft is the primary concern.

-Identity theft is the act of stealing personal information to commit fraud while impersonating a victim. And the primary objective of identity theft is financial gain.

Keep Organization Secure:

Analytical thinking
Security analysts often use analytical thinking, which means to think carefully and thoroughly. Analysts use this skill when monitoring and securing computer and network systems, responding to potential threats, defining system privileges, and determining ways to mitigate risk.

Collaboration
Collaboration means working with stakeholders and other team members. Security analysts often use this skill when responding to an active threat. They'll work with others when blocking unauthorized access and ensuring any compromised systems are restored.

Malware prevention
When a specific threat or vulnerability is identified, an analyst might install prevention software, which is software that works to proactively prevent a threat from occurring. Because malware is designed to harm devices or networks, malware prevention is essential.

Communication
As an analyst prevents and encounters threats, risks, or vulnerabilities, they document and report findings. A report might detail attempts to secure systems, test weak points, or offer solutions for system improvement. When reporting findings, strong communication skills are important.

Understanding programming languages
Analysts may sometimes work with software development teams to analyze and support security, install software, and set up appropriate processes. When involved with software development projects, it can be helpful for an analyst to understand programming languages.

Using SIEM tools
When security analysts need to review vulnerabilities, they conduct a periodic security audit. This is a review of an organization’s records, activities, and related documents. During audits, Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools help analysts better understand security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 1
Cybersecurity (or security): The practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation

Cloud security: The process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured and access to those assets is limited to authorized users

Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk

Network security: The practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access

Personally identifiable information (PII): Any information used to infer an individual’s identity

Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change 

Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines

Technical skills: Skills that require knowledge of specific tools, procedures, and policies 

Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets

Threat actor: Any person or group who presents a security risk

Transferable skills: Skills from other areas that can apply to different careers 

MODULE 2:-

Malware
Malware is software designed to harm devices or networks. There are many types of malware. The primary purpose of malware is to obtain money, or in some cases, an intelligence advantage that can be used against a person, an organization, or a territory.  

Some of the most common types of malware attacks today include: 

Viruses: Malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software. A virus needs to be initiated by a user (i.e., a threat actor), who transmits the virus via a malicious attachment or file download. When someone opens the malicious attachment or download, the virus hides itself in other files in the now infected system. When the infected files are opened, it allows the virus to insert its own code to damage and/or destroy data in the system.

Worms: Malware that can duplicate and spread itself across systems on its own. In contrast to a virus, a worm does not need to be downloaded by a user. Instead, it self-replicates and spreads from an already infected computer to other devices on the same network.

Ransomware: A malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization's data and demand payment to restore access. 

Spyware: Malware that’s used to gather and sell information without consent. Spyware can be used to access devices. This allows threat actors to collect personal data, such as private emails, texts, voice and image recordings, and locations.

Social Engineering 
Social engineering is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables. Human error is usually a result of trusting someone without question. It’s the mission of a threat actor, acting as a social engineer, to create an environment of false trust and lies to exploit as many people as possible. 

Some of the most common types of social engineering attacks today include:

Social media phishing: A threat actor collects detailed information about their target from social media sites. Then, they initiate an attack.

Watering hole attack: A threat actor attacks a website frequently visited by a specific group of users.

USB baiting: A threat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick for an employee to find and install, to unknowingly infect a network. 

Physical social engineering: A threat actor impersonates an employee, customer, or vendor to obtain unauthorized access to a physical location.

Social engineering principles 
Social engineering is incredibly effective. This is because people are generally trusting and conditioned to respect authority. The number of social engineering attacks is increasing with every new social media application that allows public access to people's data. Although sharing personal data—such as your location or photos—can be convenient, it’s also a risk.

Reasons why social engineering attacks are effective include:

Authority: Threat actors impersonate individuals with power. This is because people, in general, have been conditioned to respect and follow authority figures. 

Intimidation: Threat actors use bullying tactics. This includes persuading and intimidating victims into doing what they’re told. 

Consensus/Social proof: Because people sometimes do things that they believe many others are doing, threat actors use others’ trust to pretend they are legitimate. For example, a threat actor might try to gain access to private data by telling an employee that other people at the company have given them access to that data in the past. 

Scarcity: A tactic used to imply that goods or services are in limited supply. 

Familiarity: Threat actors establish a fake emotional connection with users that can be exploited.  

Trust: Threat actors establish an emotional relationship with users that can be exploited over time. They use this relationship to develop trust and gain personal information.

Urgency: A threat actor persuades others to respond quickly and without questioning.
Phishing
Phishing is the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software. 

Some of the most common types of phishing attacks today include: 

Business Email Compromise (BEC): A threat actor sends an email message that seems to be from a known source to make a seemingly legitimate request for information, in order to obtain a financial advantage.

Spear phishing: A malicious email attack that targets a specific user or group of users. The email seems to originate from a trusted source.

Whaling: A form of spear phishing. Threat actors target company executives to gain access to sensitive data.

Vishing: The exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source.

Smishing: The use of text messages to trick users, in order to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source.

Introduction to the eight CISSP(Certified Information Systems Security Professional) security domains:-

Let's start with the first domain, security and risk management. Security and risk management focuses on defining security goals and objectives, risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity, and the law. For example, security analysts may need to update company policies related to private health information if a change is made to a federal compliance regulation such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, also known as HIPAA.

The second domain is asset security. This domain focuses on securing digital and physical assets. It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of data. When working with this domain, security analysts may be tasked with making sure that old equipment is properly disposed of and destroyed, including any type of confidential information.

The third domain is security architecture and engineering. This domain focuses on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place. As a security analyst, you may be tasked with configuring a firewall. A firewall is a device used to monitor and filter incoming and outgoing computer network traffic. Setting up a firewall correctly helps prevent attacks that could affect productivity.

The fourth security domain is communication and network security. This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. As a security analyst, you may be asked to analyze user behavior within your organization. Imagine discovering that users are connecting to unsecured wireless hotspots. This could leave the organization and its employees vulnerable to attacks. To ensure communications are secure, you would create a network policy to prevent and mitigate exposure.

Let's move into the fifth domain: identity and access management. Identity and access management focuses on keeping data secure, by ensuring users follow established policies to control and manage physical assets, like office spaces, and logical assets, such as networks and applications. Validating the identities of employees and documenting access roles are essential to maintaining the organization's physical and digital security. For example, as a security analyst, you may be tasked with setting up employees' keycard access to buildings.

The sixth domain is security assessment and testing. This domain focuses on conducting security control testing, collecting and analyzing data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security analysts may conduct regular audits of user permissions, to make sure that users have the correct level of access. For example, access to payroll information is often limited to certain employees, so analysts may be asked to regularly audit permissions to ensure that no unauthorized person can view employee salaries.

The seventh domain is security operations. This domain focuses on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures. Imagine that you, as a security analyst, receive an alert that an unknown device has been connected to your internal network. You would need to follow the organization's policies and procedures to quickly stop the potential threat.

The final, eighth domain is software development security. This domain focuses on using secure coding practices, which are a set of recommended guidelines that are used to create secure applications and services. A security analyst may work with software development teams to ensure security practices are incorporated into the software development life-cycle. If, for example, one of your partner teams is creating a new mobile app, then you may be asked to advise on the password policies or ensure that any user data is properly secured and managed.

Determine the type of attack
Previously, you learned about the eight Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) security domains. The domains can help you better understand how a security analyst's job duties can be organized into categories. Additionally, the domains can help establish an understanding of how to manage risk. In this reading, you will learn about additional methods of attack. You’ll also be able to recognize the types of risk these attacks present.

Graphic of the eight icons that represent the CISSP security domains.
Attack types
Password attack
A password attack is an attempt to access password-secured devices, systems, networks, or data. Some forms of password attacks that you’ll learn about later in the certificate program are:  

Brute force

Rainbow table

Password attacks fall under the communication and network security domain. 

Social engineering attack
Social engineering is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables. Some forms of social engineering attacks that you will continue to learn about throughout the program are: 

Phishing

Smishing

Vishing

Spear phishing

Whaling

Social media phishing

Business Email Compromise (BEC)

Watering hole attack

USB (Universal Serial Bus) baiting

Physical social engineering 

Social engineering attacks are related to the security and risk management domain.

Physical attack
A physical attack is a security incident that affects not only digital but also physical environments where the incident is deployed. Some forms of physical attacks are:

Malicious USB cable

Malicious flash drive

Card cloning and skimming

Physical attacks fall under the asset security domain. 

Adversarial artificial intelligence
Adversarial artificial intelligence is a technique that manipulates 
artificial intelligence and machine learning
 technology to conduct attacks more efficiently. Adversarial artificial intelligence falls under both the communication and network security and the identity and access management domains.

Supply-chain attack
A supply-chain attack targets systems, applications, hardware, and/or software to locate a vulnerability where malware can be deployed. Because every item sold undergoes a process that involves third parties, this means that the security breach can occur at any point in the supply chain. These attacks are costly because they can affect multiple organizations and the individuals who work for them. Supply-chain attacks can fall under several domains, including but not limited to the security and risk management, security architecture and engineering, and security operations domains.

Cryptographic attack
A cryptographic attack affects secure forms of communication between a sender and intended recipient. Some forms of cryptographic attacks are: 

Birthday

Collision

Downgrade

Cryptographic attacks fall under the communication and network security domain. 

Understand attackers
Previously, you were introduced to the concept of threat actors. As a reminder, a threat actor is any person or group who presents a security risk. In this reading, you’ll learn about different types of threat actors. You will also learn about their motivations, intentions, and how they’ve influenced the security industry.

Threat actor types
Advanced persistent threats
Advanced persistent threats (APTs) have significant expertise accessing an organization's network without authorization. APTs tend to research their targets (e.g., large corporations or government entities)  in advance and can remain undetected for an extended period of time. Their intentions and motivations can include:

Damaging critical infrastructure, such as the power grid and natural resources

Gaining access to intellectual property, such as trade secrets or patents

Insider threats
Insider threats abuse their authorized access to obtain data that may harm an organization. Their intentions and motivations can include: 

Sabotage

Corruption

Espionage

Unauthorized data access or leaks 

Hacktivists
Hacktivists are threat actors that are driven by a political agenda. They abuse digital technology to accomplish their goals, which may include: 

Demonstrations

Propaganda

Social change campaigns

Fame

Hacker types
Six hackers on computers.
A hacker is any person who uses computers to gain access to computer systems, networks, or data. They can be beginner or advanced technology professionals who use their skills for a variety of reasons. There are three main categories of hackers:

Authorized hackers are also called ethical hackers. They follow a code of ethics and adhere to the law to conduct organizational risk evaluations. They are motivated to safeguard people and organizations from malicious threat actors.

Semi-authorized hackers are considered researchers. They search for vulnerabilities but don’t take advantage of the vulnerabilities they find.

Unauthorized hackers are also called unethical hackers. They are malicious threat actors who do not follow or respect the law. Their goal is to collect and sell confidential data for financial gain. 

Note: There are multiple hacker types that fall into one or more of these three categories.

New and unskilled threat actors have various goals, including: 

To learn and enhance their hacking skills

To seek revenge

To exploit security weaknesses by using existing malware, programming scripts, and other tactics 

Other types of hackers are not motivated by any particular agenda other than completing the job they were contracted to do. These types of hackers can be considered unethical or ethical hackers. They have been known to work on both illegal and legal tasks for pay.

There are also hackers who consider themselves vigilantes. Their main goal is to protect the world from unethical hackers.

Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 2
Adversarial artificial intelligence (AI): A technique that manipulates artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technology to conduct attacks more efficiently 

Business Email Compromise (BEC): A type of phishing attack where a threat actor impersonates a known source to obtain financial advantage

CISSP: Certified Information Systems Security Professional is a globally recognized and highly sought-after information security certification, awarded by the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium 

Computer virus: Malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software

Cryptographic attack: An attack that affects secure forms of communication between a sender and intended recipient

Hacker: Any person who uses computers to gain access to computer systems, networks, or data

Malware: Software designed to harm devices or networks

Password attack: An attempt to access password secured devices, systems, networks, or data

Phishing: The use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software

Physical attack: A security incident that affects not only digital but also physical environments where the incident is deployed

Physical social engineering: An attack in which a threat actor impersonates an employee, customer, or vendor to obtain unauthorized access to a physical location

Social engineering: A manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables

Social media phishing: A type of attack where a threat actor collects detailed information about their target on social media sites before initiating the attack

Spear phishing: A malicious email attack targeting a specific user or group of users, appearing to originate from a trusted source

Supply-chain attack: An attack that targets systems, applications, hardware, and/or software to locate a vulnerability where malware can be deployed

USB baiting: An attack in which a threat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick for an employee to find and install to unknowingly infect a network

Virus: refer to “computer virus”

Vishing: The exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source

Watering hole attack: A type of attack when a threat actor compromises a website frequently visited by a specific group of users

Controls, frameworks, and compliance
Previously, you were introduced to security frameworks and how they provide a structured approach to implementing a security lifecycle. As a reminder, a security lifecycle is a constantly evolving set of policies and standards. In this reading, you will learn more about how security frameworks, controls, and compliance regulations—or laws—are used together to manage security and make sure everyone does their part to minimize risk.

How controls, frameworks, and compliance are related
The confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. 

A triangle representing the CIA (confidentiality, integrity, availability) triad
CIA are the three foundational principles used by cybersecurity professionals to establish appropriate controls that mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

As you may recall, security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. So they are used alongside frameworks to ensure that security goals and processes are implemented correctly and that organizations meet regulatory compliance requirements.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. They have four core components:

Identifying and documenting security goals 

Setting guidelines to achieve security goals 

Implementing strong security processes

Monitoring and communicating results

Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations.

Specific controls, frameworks, and compliance
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a U.S.-based agency that develops multiple voluntary compliance frameworks that organizations worldwide can use to help manage risk. The more aligned an organization is with compliance, the lower the risk.

Examples of frameworks include the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF). 

Note: Specifications and guidelines can change depending on the type of organization you work for.

In addition to the 
NIST CSF
 and 
NIST RMF
, there are several other controls, frameworks, and compliance standards that are important for security professionals to be familiar with to help keep organizations and the people they serve safe.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)
FERC-NERC is a regulation that applies to organizations that work with electricity or that are involved with the U.S. and North American power grid. These types of organizations have an obligation to prepare for, mitigate, and report any potential security incident that can negatively affect the power grid. They are also legally required to adhere to the Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards defined by the FERC. 

The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)
FedRAMP is a U.S. federal government program that standardizes security assessment, authorization, monitoring, and handling of cloud services and product offerings. Its purpose is to provide consistency across the government sector and third-party cloud providers. 

Center for Internet Security (CIS®)
CIS is a nonprofit with multiple areas of emphasis. It provides a set of controls that can be used to safeguard systems and networks against attacks. Its purpose is to help organizations establish a better plan of defense. CIS also provides actionable controls that security professionals may follow if a security incident occurs. 

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. residents’ data and their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory. For example, if an organization is not being transparent about the data they are holding about an E.U. citizen and why they are holding that data, this is an infringement that can result in a fine to the organization. Additionally, if a breach occurs and an E.U. citizen’s data is compromised, they must be informed. The affected organization has 72 hours to notify the E.U. citizen about the breach.

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. The objective of this compliance standard is to reduce credit card fraud. 

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
HIPAA is a U.S. federal law established in 1996 to protect patients' health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. It is governed by three rules: 

Privacy

Security 

Breach notification 

Organizations that store patient data have a legal obligation to inform patients of a breach because if patients' Protected Health Information (PHI) is exposed, it can lead to identity theft and insurance fraud. PHI relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, whether it’s a plan of care or payments for care. Along with understanding HIPAA as a law, security professionals also need to be familiar with the Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST®), which is a security framework and assurance program that helps institutions meet HIPAA compliance.

International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders. It helps organizations improve their processes and procedures for staff retention, planning, waste, and services. 

System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants® (AICPA) auditing standards board developed this standard. The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational levels such as: 

Associate

Supervisor

Manager

Executive

Vendor 

Others 

They are used to assess an organization’s financial compliance and levels of risk. They also cover confidentiality, privacy, integrity, availability, security, and overall data safety. Control failures in these areas can lead to fraud.

Pro tip: There are a number of regulations that are frequently revised. You are encouraged to keep up-to-date with changes and explore more frameworks, controls, and compliance. Two suggestions to research: the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

Ethical concepts that guide cybersecurity decisions
Previously, you were introduced to the concept of security ethics. Security ethics are guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional. Being ethical requires that security professionals remain unbiased and maintain the security and confidentiality of private data. Having a strong sense of ethics can help you navigate your decisions as a cybersecurity professional so you’re able to mitigate threats posed by threat actors’ constantly evolving tactics and techniques. In this reading, you’ll learn about more ethical concepts that are essential to know so you can make appropriate decisions about how to legally and ethically respond to attacks in a way that protects organizations and people alike. 

Ethical concerns and laws related to counterattacks 
United States standpoint on counterattacks 
In the U.S., deploying a counterattack on a threat actor is illegal because of laws like the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, among others. You can only defend. The act of counterattacking in the U.S. is perceived as an act of vigilantism. A vigilante is a person who is not a member of law enforcement who decides to stop a crime on their own. And because threat actors are criminals, counterattacks can lead to further escalation of the attack, which can cause even more damage and harm. Lastly, if the threat actor in question is a state-sponsored hacktivist, a counterattack can lead to serious international implications. A hacktivist is a person who uses hacking to achieve a political goal. The political goal may be to promote social change or civil disobedience. 

For these reasons, the only individuals in the U.S. who are allowed to counterattack are approved employees of the federal government or military personnel. 

International standpoint on counterattacks
The International Court of Justice (ICJ), which updates its guidance regularly, states that a person or group can counterattack if: 

The counterattack will only affect the party that attacked first.

The counterattack is a direct communication asking the initial attacker to stop.

The counterattack does not escalate the situation.

The counterattack effects can be reversed.

Organizations typically do not counterattack because the above scenarios and parameters are hard to measure. There is a lot of uncertainty dictating what is and is not lawful, and at times negative outcomes are very difficult to control. Counterattack actions generally lead to a worse outcome, especially when you are not an experienced professional in the field. 

To learn more about specific scenarios and ethical concerns from an international perspective, review updates provided in the 
Tallinn Manual online
.

Ethical principles and methodologies
Because counterattacks are generally disapproved of or illegal, the security realm has created frameworks and controls—such as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad and others discussed earlier in the program—to address issues of confidentiality, privacy protections, and laws. To better understand the relationship between these issues and the ethical obligations of cybersecurity professionals, review the following key concepts as they relate to using ethics to protect organizations and the people they serve. 

Confidentiality means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. Confidentiality as it relates to professional ethics means that there needs to be a high level of respect for privacy to safeguard private assets and data.

Privacy protection means safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use. Personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII) are types of personal data that can cause people harm if they are stolen. PII data is any information used to infer an individual's identity, like their name and phone number. SPII data is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines, including social security numbers and credit card numbers. To effectively safeguard PII and SPII data, security professionals hold an ethical obligation to secure private information, identify security vulnerabilities, manage organizational risks, and align security with business goals. 

Laws are rules that are recognized by a community and enforced by a governing entity. As a security professional, you will have an ethical obligation to protect your organization, its internal infrastructure, and the people involved with the organization. To do this:

You must remain unbiased and conduct your work honestly, responsibly, and with the highest respect for the law. 

Be transparent and just, and rely on evidence.

Ensure that you are consistently invested in the work you are doing, so you can appropriately and ethically address issues that arise. 

Stay informed and strive to advance your skills, so you can contribute to the betterment of the cyber landscape. 

 As an example, consider the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which is a U.S. federal law established to protect patients' health information, also known as PHI, or protected health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. So, as a security professional, you might help ensure that the organization you work for adheres to both its legal and ethical obligation to inform patients of a breach if their health care data is exposed.

Glossary terms from module 3
Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 3
Asset: An item perceived as having value to an organization 

Availability: The idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it

Compliance: The process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations

Confidentiality: The idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data

Confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA) triad: A model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies

Hacktivist: A person who uses hacking to achieve a political goal

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA): A U.S. federal law established to protect patients' health information

Integrity: The idea that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework (CSF): A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk

Privacy protection: The act of safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use

Protected health information (PHI): Information that relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual

Security architecture: A type of security design composed of multiple components, such as tools and processes, that are used to protect an organization from risks and external threats

Security controls: Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks

Security ethics: Guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional

Security frameworks: Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy

Security governance: Practices that help support, define, and direct security efforts of an organization

Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines

MODULE 4:-

Tools for protecting business operations
Previously, you were introduced to several technical skills that security analysts need to develop. You were also introduced to some tools entry-level security analysts may have in their toolkit. In this reading, you’ll learn more about how technical skills and tools help security analysts mitigate risks.

An entry-level analyst’s toolkit
Every organization may provide a different toolkit, depending on its security needs. As a future analyst, it’s important that you are familiar with industry standard tools and can demonstrate your ability to learn how to use similar tools in a potential workplace. 

A person with a toolkit with different tools inside
Security information and event management (SIEM) tools

A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. A log is a record of events that occur within an organization’s systems. Depending on the amount of data you’re working with, it could take hours or days to filter through log data on your own. SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an analyst must review by providing alerts for specific types of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

SIEM tools provide a series of dashboards that visually organize data into categories, allowing users to select the data they wish to analyze. Different SIEM tools have different dashboard types that display the information you have access to. 

SIEM tools also come with different hosting options, including on-premise and cloud. Organizations may choose one hosting option over another based on a security team member’s expertise. For example, because a cloud-hosted version tends to be easier to set up, use, and maintain than an on-premise version, a less experienced security team may choose this option for their organization.

Network protocol analyzers (packet sniffers)
A network protocol analyzer, also known as a packet sniffer, is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic in a network. This means that the tool keeps a record of all the data that a computer within an organization's network encounters. Later in the program, you’ll have an opportunity to practice using some common network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer) tools. 

Playbooks
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, such as how to respond to a security incident. Organizations usually have multiple playbooks documenting processes and procedures for their teams to follow. Playbooks vary from one organization to the next, but they all have a similar purpose: To guide analysts through a series of steps to complete specific security-related tasks. 

For example, consider the following scenario: You are working as a security analyst for an incident response firm. You are given a case involving a small medical practice that has suffered a security breach. Your job is to help with the forensic investigation and provide evidence to a cybersecurity insurance company. They will then use your investigative findings to determine whether the medical practice will receive their insurance payout. 

In this scenario, playbooks would outline the specific actions you need to take to conduct the investigation. Playbooks also help ensure that you are following proper protocols and procedures. When working on a forensic case, there are two playbooks you might follow:

The first type of playbook you might consult is called the chain of custody playbook. Chain of custody is the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle. As a security analyst involved in a forensic analysis, you will work with the computer data that was breached. You and the forensic team will also need to document who, what, where, and why you have the collected evidence. The evidence is your responsibility while it is in your possession. Evidence must be kept safe and tracked. Every time evidence is moved, it should be reported. This allows all parties involved to know exactly where the evidence is at all times.

The second playbook your team might use is called the protecting and preserving evidence playbook. Protecting and preserving evidence is the process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence. As a security analyst, understanding what fragile and volatile digital evidence is, along with why there is a procedure, is critical. As you follow this playbook, you will consult the order of volatility, which is a sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last. It prioritizes volatile data, which is data that may be lost if the device in question powers off, regardless of the reason. While conducting an investigation, improper management of digital evidence can compromise and alter that evidence. When evidence is improperly managed during an investigation, it can no longer be used. For this reason, the first priority in any investigation is to properly preserve the data. You can preserve the data by making copies and conducting your investigation using those copies.

Use tools to protect business operations
Previously, you were introduced to programming, operating systems, and tools commonly used by cybersecurity professionals. In this reading, you’ll learn more about programming and operating systems, as well as other tools that entry-level analysts use to help protect organizations and the people they serve. 

Tools and their purposes
Programming 
Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. Security analysts use programming languages, such as Python, to execute automation. Automation is the use of technology to reduce human and manual effort in performing common and repetitive tasks. Automation also helps reduce the risk of human error.

Another programming language used by analysts is called Structured Query Language (SQL). SQL is used to create, interact with, and request information from a database. A database is an organized collection of information or data. There can be millions of data points in a database. A data point is a specific piece of information. 

Operating systems
An operating system is the interface between computer hardware and the user. Linux®, macOS®, and Windows are operating systems. They each offer different functionality and user experiences. 

Previously, you were introduced to Linux as an open-source operating system. Open source means that the code is available to the public and allows people to make contributions to improve the software. Linux is not a programming language; however, it does involve the use of a command line within the operating system. A command is an instruction telling the computer to do something. A command-line interface is a text-based user interface that uses commands to interact with the computer. You will learn more about Linux, including the Linux kernel and GNU, in a later course.

Web vulnerability
A web vulnerability is a unique flaw in a web application that a threat actor could exploit by using malicious code or behavior, to allow unauthorized access, data theft, and malware deployment.

To stay up-to-date on the most critical risks to web applications, review the 
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10
.

Antivirus software
Antivirus software is a software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses. It is also called anti-malware. Depending on the type of antivirus software, it can scan the memory of a device to find patterns that indicate the presence of malware. 

Intrusion detection system 
An intrusion detection system (IDS) is an application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions. The system scans and analyzes network packets, which carry small amounts of data through a network. The small amount of data makes the detection process easier for an IDS to identify potential threats to sensitive data. Other occurrences an IDS might detect can include theft and unauthorized access.

Encryption
Encryption makes data unreadable and difficult to decode for an unauthorized user; its main goal is to ensure confidentiality of private data. Encryption is the process of converting data from a readable format to a cryptographically encoded format. Cryptographic encoding means converting plaintext into secure ciphertext. Plaintext is unencrypted information and secure ciphertext is the result of encryption.  

Note: Encoding and encryption serve different purposes. Encoding uses a public conversion algorithm to enable systems that use different data representations to share information.    

Penetration testing 
Penetration testing, also called pen testing, is the act of participating in a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes. It is a thorough risk assessment that can evaluate and identify external and internal threats as well as weaknesses.

Create a cybersecurity portfolio
Throughout this certificate program, you will have multiple opportunities to develop a professional cybersecurity portfolio to showcase your security skills and knowledge.

In this reading, you’ll learn what a portfolio is and why it’s important to develop a professional cybersecurity portfolio. You’ll also learn about options for creating an online or self-hosted portfolio that you can share with potential employers when you begin to look for cybersecurity jobs.

What is a portfolio, and why is it necessary?
Cybersecurity professionals use portfolios to demonstrate their security education, skills, and knowledge. Professionals typically use portfolios when they apply for jobs to show potential employers that they are passionate about their work and can do the job they are applying for. Portfolios are more in depth than a resume, which is typically a one-to-two page summary of relevant education, work experience, and accomplishments. You will have the opportunity to develop a resume, and finalize your portfolio, in the last course of this program. 

Options for creating your portfolio 
There are many ways to present a portfolio, including self-hosted and online options such as:

Documents folder

Google Drive or Dropbox™

Google Sites

Git repository

Option 1: Documents folder
Description: A documents folder is a folder created and saved to your computer’s hard drive. You manage the folder, subfolders, documents, and images within it. 

Document folders allow you to have direct access to your documentation. Ensuring that your professional documents, images, and other information are well organized can save you a lot of time when you’re ready to apply for jobs. For example, you may want to create a main folder titled something like “Professional documents.” Then, within your main folder, you could create subfolders with titles such as:

Resume

Education

Portfolio documents

Cybersecurity tools

Programming 

Setup: Document folders can be created in multiple ways, depending on the type of computer you are using. If you’re unsure about how to create a folder on your device, you can search the internet for instructional videos or documents related to the type of computer you use.

Option 2: Google Drive or Dropbox
Description: Google Drive and Dropbox offer similar features that allow you to store your professional documentation on a cloud platform. Both options also have file-sharing features, so you can easily share your portfolio documents with potential employers. Any additions or changes you make to a document within that folder will be updated automatically for anyone with access to your portfolio.

Similar to a documents folder, keeping your Google Drive or Dropbox-based portfolio well organized will be helpful as you begin or progress through your career.

Setup: To learn how to upload and share files on these applications, visit the Google Drive and Dropbox websites for more information.  

Option 3: Google Sites
Description: Google Sites and similar website hosting options have a variety of easy-to-use features to help you present your portfolio items, including customizable layouts, responsive webpages, embedded content capabilities, and web publishing.

Responsive webpages automatically adjust their content to fit a variety of devices and screen sizes. This is helpful because potential employers can review your content using any device and your media will display just as you intend. When you’re ready, you can publish your website and receive a unique URL. You can add this link to your resume so hiring managers can easily access your work.

Setup: To learn how to create a website in Google Sites, visit the Google Sites website.  

Option 4: Git repository
Description: A Git repository is a folder within a project. In this instance, the project is your portfolio, and you can use your repository to store the documents, labs, and screenshots you complete during each course of the certificate program. There are several Git repository sites you can use, including:

GitLab

Bitbucket™

GitHub

Each Git repository allows you to showcase your skills and knowledge in a customizable space. To create an online project portfolio on any of the repositories listed, you need to use a version of Markdown.  

Setup: To learn about how to create a GitHub account and use Markdown, follow the steps outlined in the document 
Get started with GitHub
.

Portfolio projects
As previously mentioned, you will have multiple opportunities throughout the certificate program to develop items to include in your portfolio. These opportunities include:

Drafting a professional statement

Conducting a security audit

Analyzing network structure and security

Using Linux commands to manage file permissions

Applying filters to SQL queries

Identifying vulnerabilities for a small business

Documenting incidents with an incident handler’s journal 

Importing and parsing a text file in a security-related scenario

Creating or revising a resume

Note: Do not include any private, copyrighted, or proprietary documents in your portfolio. Also, if you use one of the sites described in this reading, keep your site set to “private” until it is finalized.

Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 4
Antivirus software: A software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses

Database: An organized collection of information or data

Data point: A specific piece of information

Intrusion detection system (IDS): An application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions

Linux: An open-source operating system

Log: A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems 

Network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer): A tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic within a network

Order of volatility: A sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last

Programming: A process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks

Protecting and preserving evidence: The process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence

Security information and event management (SIEM): An application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization

SQL (Structured Query Language): A query language used to create, interact with, and request information from a database

HIGHLIGHTS OF COURSE 1:

Before we move on, let's take a moment to celebrate and reflect on what we've covered. First, we introduced core security concepts, including what security is and why it matters. We also discussed what an entry-level security analyst does and some skills related to the role.
Then, we transitioned to eight security domains, which include security and risk management, asset security, and security operations.
Next, we highlighted security frameworks and controls. Specifically, the CIA triad model and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
Finally, we explored common tools and programming languages used by security analysts, such as SIEMs, playbooks, SQL, and Python.

