MODULE 1:

Security domains cybersecurity analysts need to know
As an analyst, you can explore various areas of cybersecurity that interest you. One way to explore those areas is by understanding different security domains and how they’re used to organize the work of security professionals. In this reading you will learn more about CISSP’s eight security domains and how they relate to the work you’ll do as a security analyst. 

Graphic of the eight icons that represent the security domains from the CISSP
Domain one: Security and risk management
All organizations must develop their security posture. Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. Elements of the security and risk management domain that impact an organization's security posture include:

Security goals and objectives

Risk mitigation processes

Compliance

Business continuity plans

Legal regulations

Professional and organizational ethics

Information security, or InfoSec, is also related to this domain and refers to a set of processes established to secure information. An organization may use playbooks and implement training as a part of their security and risk management program, based on their needs and perceived risk. There are many InfoSec design processes, such as:

Incident response

Vulnerability management

Application security

Cloud security

Infrastructure security

As an example, a security team may need to alter how personally identifiable information (PII) is treated in order to adhere to the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Domain two: Asset security
Asset security involves managing the cybersecurity processes of organizational assets, including the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of physical and virtual data. Because the loss or theft of assets can expose an organization and increase the level of risk, keeping track of assets and the data they hold is essential. Conducting a security impact analysis, establishing a recovery plan, and managing data exposure will depend on the level of risk associated with each asset. Security analysts may need to store, maintain, and retain data by creating backups to ensure they are able to restore the environment if a security incident places the organization’s data at risk.

Domain three: Security architecture and engineering	
This domain focuses on managing data security. Ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place helps protect an organization’s assets and data. Security architects and engineers create these processes.

One important aspect of this domain is the concept of shared responsibility. Shared responsibility means all individuals involved take an active role in lowering risk during the design of a security system. Additional design principles related to this domain, which are discussed later in the program, include:

Threat modeling

Least privilege

Defense in depth

Fail securely

Separation of duties

Keep it simple

Zero trust

Trust but verify

An example of managing data is the use of a security information and event management (SIEM) tool to monitor for flags related to unusual login or user activity that could indicate a threat actor is attempting to access private data.

Domain four: Communication and network security
This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. This includes on-site, remote, and cloud communications. 

Organizations with remote, hybrid, and on-site work environments must ensure data remains secure, but managing external connections to make certain that remote workers are securely accessing an organization’s networks is a challenge. Designing network security controls—such as restricted network access—can help protect users and ensure an organization’s network remains secure when employees travel or work outside of the main office. 

Domain five: Identity and access management
The identity and access management (IAM) domain focuses on keeping data secure. It does this by ensuring user identities are trusted and authenticated and that access to physical and logical assets is authorized. This helps prevent unauthorized users, while allowing authorized users to perform their tasks.

Essentially, IAM uses what is referred to as the principle of least privilege, which is the concept of granting only the minimal access and authorization required to complete a task. As an example, a cybersecurity analyst might be asked to ensure that customer service representatives can only view the private data of a customer, such as their phone number, while working to resolve the customer's issue; then remove access when the customer's issue is resolved.

Domain six: Security assessment and testing 
The security assessment and testing domain focuses on identifying and mitigating risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security assessments help organizations determine whether their internal systems are secure or at risk. Organizations might employ penetration testers, often referred to as “pen testers,” to find vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a threat actor. 

This domain suggests that organizations conduct security control testing, as well as collect and analyze data. Additionally, it emphasizes the importance of conducting security audits to monitor for and reduce the probability of a data breach. To contribute to these types of tasks, cybersecurity professionals may be tasked with auditing user permissions to validate that users have the correct levels of access to internal systems.

Domain seven: Security operations 
The security operations domain focuses on the investigation of a potential data breach and the implementation of preventative measures after a security incident has occurred. This includes using strategies, processes, and tools such as:

Training and awareness

Reporting and documentation

Intrusion detection and prevention

SIEM tools   

Log management

Incident management

Playbooks

Post-breach forensics

Reflecting on lessons learned

The cybersecurity professionals involved in this domain work as a team to manage, prevent, and investigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. These individuals are trained to handle active attacks, such as large amounts of data being accessed from an organization's internal network, outside of normal working hours. Once a threat is identified, the team works diligently to keep private data and information safe from threat actors.  

Domain eight: Software development security
The software development security domain is focused on using secure programming practices and guidelines to create secure applications. Having secure applications helps deliver secure and reliable services, which helps protect organizations and their users.

Security must be incorporated into each element of the software development life cycle, from design and development to testing and release. To achieve security, the software development process must have security in mind at each step. Security cannot be an afterthought.

Performing application security tests can help ensure vulnerabilities are identified and mitigated accordingly. Having a system in place to test the programming conventions, software executables, and security measures embedded in the software is necessary. Having quality assurance and pen tester professionals ensure the software has met security and performance standards is also an essential part of the software development process. For example, an entry-level analyst working for a pharmaceutical company might be asked to make sure encryption is properly configured for a new medical device that will store private patient data. 

Manage common threats, risks, and vulnerabilities
Previously, you learned that security involves protecting organizations and people from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Understanding the current threat landscapes gives organizations the ability to create policies and processes designed to help prevent and mitigate these types of security issues. In this reading, you will further explore how to manage risk and some common threat actor tactics and techniques, so you are better prepared to protect organizations and the people they serve when you enter the cybersecurity field. 

Risk management
A primary goal of organizations is to protect assets. An asset is an item perceived as having value to an organization. Assets can be digital or physical. Examples of digital assets include the personal information of employees, clients, or vendors, such as: 

Social Security Numbers (SSNs), or unique national identification numbers assigned to individuals 

Dates of birth

Bank account numbers

Mailing addresses

Examples of physical assets include:

Payment kiosks

Servers

Desktop computers

Office spaces

Some common strategies used to manage risks include:

Acceptance: Accepting a risk to avoid disrupting business continuity

Avoidance: Creating a plan to avoid the risk altogether

Transference: Transferring risk to a third party to manage

Mitigation: Lessening the impact of a known risk

Additionally, organizations implement risk management processes based on widely accepted frameworks to help protect digital and physical assets from various threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Examples of frameworks commonly used in the cybersecurity industry include the National Institute of Standards and Technology Risk Management Framework (
NIST RMF
) and Health Information Trust Alliance (
HITRUST
).

Following are some common types of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities you’ll help organizations manage as a security professional.

Today’s most common threats, risks, and vulnerabilities
Threats
A threat is any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets. As an entry-level security analyst, your job is to help defend the organization’s assets from inside and outside threats. Therefore, understanding common types of threats is important to an analyst’s daily work. As a reminder, common threats include:

Insider threats: Staff members or vendors abuse their authorized access to obtain data that may harm an organization.

Advanced persistent threats (APTs): A threat actor maintains unauthorized access to a system for an extended period of time.

Risks
A risk is anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset. A basic formula for determining the level of risk is that risk equals the likelihood of a threat. One way to think about this is that a risk is being late to work and threats are traffic, an accident, a flat tire, etc. 

There are different factors that can affect the likelihood of a risk to an organization’s assets, including:

External risk: Anything outside the organization that has the potential to harm organizational assets, such as threat actors attempting to gain access to private information

Internal risk: A current or former employee, vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk

Legacy systems: Old systems that might not be accounted for or updated, but can still impact assets, such as workstations or old mainframe systems. For example, an organization might have an old vending machine that takes credit card payments or a workstation that is still connected to the legacy accounting system.

Multiparty risk: Outsourcing work to third-party vendors can give them access to intellectual property, such as trade secrets, software designs, and inventions.

Software compliance/licensing: Software that is not updated or in compliance, or patches that are not installed in a timely manner

There are many resources, such as the NIST, that provide lists of 
cybersecurity risks
. Additionally, the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) publishes a standard awareness document about the 
top 10 most critical security risks
 to web applications, which is updated regularly. 

Note: The OWASP’s common attack types list contains three new risks for the years 2017 to 2021: insecure design, software and data integrity failures, and server-side request forgery. This update emphasizes the fact that security is a constantly evolving field. It also demonstrates the importance of staying up to date on current threat actor tactics and techniques, so you can be better prepared to manage these types of risks.

Lists that compare the top 10 most common attack types between 2017 and 2021
Vulnerabilities
A vulnerability is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat. Therefore, organizations need to regularly inspect for vulnerabilities within their systems. Some vulnerabilities include:

ProxyLogon: A pre-authenticated vulnerability that affects the Microsoft Exchange server. This means a threat actor can complete a user authentication process to deploy malicious code from a remote location.

ZeroLogon: A vulnerability in Microsoft’s Netlogon authentication protocol. An authentication protocol is a way to verify a person's identity. Netlogon is a service that ensures a user’s identity before allowing access to a website's location.

Log4Shell: Allows attackers to run Java code on someone else’s computer or leak sensitive information. It does this by enabling a remote attacker to take control of devices connected to the internet and run malicious code.

PetitPotam: Affects Windows New Technology Local Area Network (LAN) Manager (NTLM). It is a theft technique that allows a LAN-based attacker to initiate an authentication request.

Security logging and monitoring failures: Insufficient logging and monitoring capabilities that result in attackers exploiting vulnerabilities without the organization knowing it

Server-side request forgery: Allows attackers to manipulate a server-side application into accessing and updating backend resources. It can also allow threat actors to steal data.

As an entry-level security analyst, you might work in vulnerability management, which is monitoring a system to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities. Although patches and updates may exist, if they are not applied, intrusions can still occur. For this reason, constant monitoring is important. The sooner an organization identifies a vulnerability and addresses it by patching it or updating their systems, the sooner it can be mitigated, reducing the organization’s exposure to the vulnerability. 

To learn more about the vulnerabilities explained in this section of the reading, as well as other vulnerabilities, explore the 
NIST National Vulnerability Database
 and 
CISA Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog
.

Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 1
Assess: The fifth step of the NIST RMF that means to determine if established controls are implemented correctly

Authorize: The sixth step of the NIST RMF that refers to being accountable for the security and privacy risks that may exist in an organization

Business continuity: An organization's ability to maintain their everyday productivity by establishing risk disaster recovery plans

Categorize: The second step of the NIST RMF that is used to develop risk management processes and tasks

External threat: Anything outside the organization that has the potential to harm organizational assets

Implement: The fourth step of the NIST RMF that means to implement security and privacy plans for an organization

Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk

Monitor: The seventh step of the NIST RMF that means be aware of how systems are operating

Prepare: The first step of the NIST RMF related to activities that are necessary to manage security and privacy risks before a breach occurs

Ransomware: A malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization’s data and demand payment to restore access 

Risk: Anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset

Risk mitigation: The process of having the right procedures and rules in place to quickly reduce the impact of a risk like a breach

Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change

Select: The third step of the NIST RMF that means to choose, customize, and capture documentation of the controls that protect an organization

Shared responsibility: The idea that all individuals within an organization take an active role in lowering risk and maintaining both physical and virtual security

Social engineering: A manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables 

Vulnerability: A weakness that can be exploited by a threat

MODULE 2:

The relationship between frameworks and controls
Previously, you learned how organizations use security frameworks and controls to protect against threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This included discussions about the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST’s) Risk Management Framework (RMF) and Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad. In this reading, you will further explore security frameworks and controls and how they are used together to help mitigate organizational risk.

Frameworks and controls
Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy. Frameworks support organizations’ ability to adhere to compliance laws and regulations. For example, the healthcare industry uses frameworks to comply with the United States’ Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which requires that medical professionals keep patient information safe. 

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. Security controls are the measures organizations use to lower risk and threats to data and privacy. For example, a control that can be used alongside frameworks to ensure a hospital remains compliant with HIPAA is requiring that patients use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access their medical records. Using a measure like MFA to validate someone’s identity is one way to help mitigate potential risks and threats to private data.

Specific frameworks and controls
There are many different frameworks and controls that organizations can use to remain compliant with regulations and achieve their security goals. Frameworks covered in this reading are the Cyber Threat Framework (CTF) and the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001. Several common security controls, used alongside these types of frameworks, are also explained. 

Cyber Threat Framework (CTF)
According to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the CTF was developed by the U.S. government to provide “a common language for describing and communicating information about cyber threat activity.” By providing a common language to communicate information about threat activity, the CTF helps cybersecurity professionals analyze and share information more efficiently. This allows organizations to improve their response to the constantly evolving cybersecurity landscape and threat actors' many tactics and techniques.

International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001
An internationally recognized and used framework is ISO/IEC 27001. The ISO 27000 family of standards enables organizations of all sectors and sizes to manage the security of assets, such as financial information, intellectual property, employee data, and information entrusted to third parties. This framework outlines requirements for an information security management system, best practices, and controls that support an organization’s ability to manage risks. Although the ISO/IEC 27001 framework does not require the use of specific controls, it does provide a collection of controls that organizations can use to improve their security posture. 

Controls
Controls are used alongside frameworks to reduce the possibility and impact of a security threat, risk, or vulnerability. Controls can be physical, technical, and administrative and are typically used to prevent, detect, or correct security issues.

Examples of physical controls:

Gates, fences, and locks

Security guards

Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors

Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

Examples of technical controls:

Firewalls

MFA

Antivirus software

Examples of administrative controls:

Separation of duties

Authorization

Asset classification

To learn more about controls, particularly those used to protect health-related assets from a variety of threat types, review the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ 
Physical Access Control presentation
. 

Use the CIA triad to protect organizations
Previously, you were introduced to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad and how it helps organizations consider and mitigate risk. In this reading, you will learn how cybersecurity analysts use the CIA triad in the workplace. 

The CIA triad for analysts
The CIA triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. It is made up of three elements that cybersecurity analysts and organizations work toward upholding: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Maintaining an acceptable level of risk and ensuring systems and policies are designed with these elements in mind helps establish a successful security posture, which refers to an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. 

Confidentiality
Confidentiality is the idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. In an organization, confidentiality can be enhanced through the implementation of design principles, such as the principle of least privilege. The principle of least privilege limits users' access to only the information they need to complete work-related tasks. Limiting access is one way of maintaining the confidentiality and security of private data. 

Integrity
Integrity is the idea that the data is verifiably correct, authentic, and reliable. Having protocols in place to verify the authenticity of data is essential. One way to verify data integrity is through 
cryptography
, which is used to transform data so unauthorized parties cannot read or tamper with it (NIST, 2022). Another example of how an organization might implement integrity is by enabling encryption, which is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Encryption can be used to prevent access and ensure data, such as messages on an organization's internal chat platform, cannot be tampered with.  

Availability
Availability is the idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to use it. When a system adheres to both availability and confidentiality principles, data can be used when needed. In the workplace, this could mean that the organization allows remote employees to access its internal network to perform their jobs. It’s worth noting that access to data on the internal network is still limited, depending on what type of access employees need to do their jobs. If, for example, an employee works in the organization’s accounting department, they might need access to corporate accounts but not data related to ongoing development projects. 

More about OWASP security principles
Previously, you learned that cybersecurity analysts help keep data safe and reduce risk for an organization by using a variety of security frameworks, controls, and security principles. In this reading, you will learn about more Open Web Application Security Project, recently renamed Open Worldwide Application Security Project® (OWASP), security principles and how entry-level analysts use them. 

Security principles
In the workplace, security principles are embedded in your daily tasks. Whether you are analyzing logs, monitoring a security information and event management (SIEM) dashboard, or using a 
vulnerability scanner
, you will use these principles in some way. 

Previously, you were introduced to several OWASP security principles. These included:

Minimize attack surface area: Attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit.

Principle of least privilege: Users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.

Defense in depth: Organizations should have varying security controls that mitigate risks and threats.

Separation of duties: Critical actions should rely on multiple people, each of whom follow the principle of least privilege. 

Keep security simple: Avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions. Complexity makes security difficult. 

Fix security issues correctly: When security incidents occur, identify the root cause, contain the impact, identify vulnerabilities, and conduct tests to ensure that remediation is successful.

Additional OWASP security principles
Next, you’ll learn about four additional OWASP security principles that cybersecurity analysts and their teams use to keep organizational operations and people safe.

Establish secure defaults
This principle means that the optimal security state of an application is also its default state for users; it should take extra work to make the application insecure. 

Fail securely
Fail securely means that when a control fails or stops, it should do so by defaulting to its most secure option. For example, when a firewall fails it should simply close all connections and block all new ones, rather than start accepting everything.

Don’t trust services
Many organizations work with third-party partners. These outside partners often have different security policies than the organization does. And the organization shouldn’t explicitly trust that their partners’ systems are secure. For example, if a third-party vendor tracks reward points for airline customers, the airline should ensure that the balance is accurate before sharing that information with their customers.

Avoid security by obscurity
The security of key systems should not rely on keeping details hidden. Consider the following example from OWASP (2016): 
OWASP Mobile Top 10

The security of an application should not rely on keeping the source code secret. Its security should rely upon many other factors, including reasonable password policies, defense in depth, business transaction limits, solid network architecture, and fraud and audit controls.

Glossary terms from module 2
Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 2
Asset: An item perceived as having value to an organization

Attack vectors: The pathways attackers use to penetrate security defenses

Authentication: The process of verifying who someone is

Authorization: The concept of granting access to specific resources in a system

Availability: The idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it

Biometrics: The unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person’s identity

Confidentiality: The idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data

Confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA) triad: A model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies

Detect: A NIST core function related to identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections

Encryption: The process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format

Govern: A NIST core function related to ensuring an organization establishes, oversees, and improves its cybersecurity strategy, policies, roles, and risk management processes to align with business goals and regulations

Identify: A NIST core function related to management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization’s people and assets 

Integrity: The idea that the data is correct, authentic, and reliable

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF): A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk 

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (S.P.) 800-53: A unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within the U.S. federal government 

Open Web Application Security Project/Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP): A non-profit organization focused on improving software security

Protect: A NIST core function used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats

Recover: A NIST core function related to returning affected systems back to normal operation

Respond: A NIST core function related to making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process

Risk: Anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset

Security audit: A review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations

Security controls: Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks 

Security frameworks: Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy

Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change

Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets

The future of SIEM tools
Previously, you were introduced to security information and event management (SIEM) tools, along with a few examples of SIEM tools. In this reading, you will learn more about how SIEM tools are used to protect organizational operations. You will also gain insight into how and why SIEM tools are changing to help protect organizations and the people they serve from evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

Current SIEM solutions 
A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. SIEM tools offer real-time monitoring and tracking of security event logs. The data is then used to conduct a thorough analysis of any potential security threat, risk, or vulnerability identified. SIEM tools have many dashboard options. Each dashboard option helps cybersecurity team members manage and monitor organizational data. However, currently, SIEM tools require human interaction for analysis of security events.  

The future of SIEM tools
As cybersecurity continues to evolve, the need for cloud functionality has increased. SIEM tools have and continue to evolve to function in cloud-hosted and cloud-native environments. Cloud-hosted SIEM tools are operated by vendors who are responsible for maintaining and managing the infrastructure required to use the tools. Cloud-hosted tools are simply accessed through the internet and are an ideal solution for organizations that don’t want to invest in creating and maintaining their own infrastructure.

Similar to cloud-hosted SIEM tools, cloud-native SIEM tools are also fully maintained and managed by vendors and accessed through the internet. However, cloud-native tools are designed to take full advantage of cloud computing capabilities, such as availability, flexibility, and scalability. 

Yet, the evolution of SIEM tools is expected to continue in order to accommodate the changing nature of technology, as well as new threat actor tactics and techniques. For example, consider the current development of interconnected devices with access to the internet, known as the Internet of Things (IoT). The more interconnected devices there are, the larger the cybersecurity attack surface and the amount of data that threat actors can exploit. The diversity of attacks and data that require special attention is expected to grow significantly. Additionally, as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technology continues to progress, SIEM capabilities will be enhanced to better identify threat-related terminology, dashboard visualization, and data storage functionality.  

The implementation of automation will also help security teams respond faster to possible incidents, performing many actions without waiting for a human response. Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is a collection of applications, tools, and workflows that uses automation to respond to security events. Essentially, this means that handling common security-related incidents with the use of SIEM tools is expected to become a more streamlined process requiring less manual intervention. This frees up security analysts to handle more complex and uncommon incidents that, consequently, can’t be automated with a SOAR. Nevertheless, the expectation is for cybersecurity-related platforms to communicate and interact with one another. Although the technology allowing interconnected systems and devices to communicate with each other exists, it is still a work in progress.

More about cybersecurity tools
Previously, you learned about several tools that are used by cybersecurity team members to monitor for and identify potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. In this reading, you’ll learn more about common open-source and proprietary cybersecurity tools that you may use as a cybersecurity professional.

Open-source tools
Open-source tools are often free to use and can be user friendly. The objective of open-source tools is to provide users with software that is built by the public in a collaborative way, which can result in the software being more secure. Additionally, open-source tools allow for more customization by users, resulting in a variety of new services built from the same open-source software package. 

Software engineers create open-source projects to improve software and make it available for anyone to use, as long as the specified license is respected. The source code for open-source projects is readily available to users, as well as the training material that accompanies them. Having these sources readily available allows users to modify and improve project materials. 

Proprietary tools
Proprietary tools are developed and owned by a person or company, and users typically pay a fee for usage and training. The owners of proprietary tools are the only ones who can access and modify the source code. This means that users generally need to wait for updates to be made to the software, and at times they might need to pay a fee for those updates. Proprietary software generally allows users to modify a limited number of features to meet individual and organizational needs. Examples of proprietary tools include Splunk® and Google SecOps (Chronicle) SIEM tools.

Common misconceptions
There is a common misconception that open-source tools are less effective and not as safe to use as proprietary tools. However, developers have been creating open-source materials for years that have become industry standards. Although it is true that threat actors have attempted to manipulate open-source tools, because these tools are open source it is actually harder for people with malicious intent to successfully cause harm. The wide exposure and immediate access to the source code by well-intentioned and informed users and professionals makes it less likely for issues to occur, because they can fix issues as soon as they’re identified.  

Examples of open-source tools
In security, there are many tools in use that are open-source and commonly available. Two examples are Linux and Suricata.

Linux
Linux is an open-source operating system that is widely used. It allows you to tailor the operating system to your needs using a command-line interface. An operating system is the interface between computer hardware and the user. It’s used to communicate with the hardware of a computer and manage software applications. 

There are multiple versions of Linux that exist to accomplish specific tasks. Linux and its command-line interface will be discussed in detail, later in the certificate program. 

Suricata
Suricata is an open-source network analysis and threat detection software.  Network analysis and threat detection software is used to inspect network traffic to identify suspicious behavior and generate network data logs. The detection software finds activity across users, computers, or Internet Protocol (IP) addresses to help uncover potential threats, risks, or vulnerabilities. 

Suricata was developed by the Open Information Security Foundation (OISF). OISF is dedicated to maintaining open-source use of the Suricata project to ensure it’s free and publicly available. Suricata is widely used in the public and private sector, and it integrates with many SIEM tools and other security tools. Suricata will also be discussed in greater detail later in the program.

Use SIEM tools to protect organizations
Previously, you were introduced to security information and event management (SIEM) tools and a few SIEM dashboards. You also learned about different threats, risks, and vulnerabilities an organization may experience. In this reading, you will learn more about SIEM dashboard data and how cybersecurity professionals use that data to identify a potential threat, risk, or vulnerability.

Splunk
Splunk offers different SIEM tool options: Splunk® Enterprise and Splunk® Cloud. Both allow you to review an organization's data on dashboards. This helps security professionals manage an organization's internal infrastructure by collecting, searching, monitoring, and analyzing log data from multiple sources to obtain full visibility into an organization’s everyday operations. 

Review the following Splunk dashboards and their purposes:

Security posture dashboard
The security posture dashboard is designed for security operations centers (SOCs). It displays the last 24 hours of an organization’s notable security-related events and trends and allows security professionals to determine if security infrastructure and policies are performing as designed. Security analysts can use this dashboard to monitor and investigate potential threats in real time, such as suspicious network activity originating from a specific IP address. 

Executive summary dashboard
The executive summary dashboard analyzes and monitors the overall health of the organization over time. This helps security teams improve security measures that reduce risk. Security analysts might use this dashboard to provide high-level insights to stakeholders, such as generating a summary of security incidents and trends over a specific period of time.

Incident review dashboard
The incident review dashboard allows analysts to identify suspicious patterns that can occur in the event of an incident. It assists by highlighting higher risk items that need immediate review by an analyst. This dashboard can be very helpful because it provides a visual timeline of the events leading up to an incident.

Risk analysis dashboard
The risk analysis dashboard helps analysts identify risk for each risk object (e.g., a specific user, a computer, or an IP address). It shows changes in risk-related activity or behavior, such as a user logging in outside of normal working hours or unusually high network traffic from a specific computer. A security analyst might use this dashboard to analyze the potential impact of vulnerabilities in critical assets, which helps analysts prioritize their risk mitigation efforts.

Chronicle
Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool from Google that retains, analyzes, and searches log data to identify potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Chronicle allows you to collect and analyze log data according to: 

A specific asset

A domain name

A user

An IP address

Chronicle provides multiple dashboards that help analysts monitor an organization’s logs, create filters and alerts, and track suspicious domain names. 

Review the following Chronicle dashboards and their purposes:

Enterprise insights dashboard
The enterprise insights dashboard highlights recent alerts. It identifies suspicious domain names in logs, known as indicators of compromise (IOCs). Each result is labeled with a confidence score to indicate the likelihood of a threat. It also provides a severity level that indicates the significance of each threat to the organization. A security analyst might use this dashboard to monitor login or data access attempts related to a critical asset—like an application or system—from unusual locations or devices.

Data ingestion and health dashboard
The data ingestion and health dashboard shows the number of event logs, log sources, and success rates of data being processed into Chronicle. A security analyst might use this dashboard to ensure that log sources are correctly configured and that logs are received without error. This helps ensure that log related issues are addressed so that the security team has access to the log data they need.

IOC matches dashboard
The IOC matches dashboard indicates the top threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to the organization. Security professionals use this dashboard to observe domain names, IP addresses, and device IOCs over time in order to identify trends. This information is then used to direct the security team’s focus to the highest priority threats. For example, security analysts can use this dashboard to search for additional activity associated with an alert, such as a suspicious user login from an unusual geographic location. 

Main dashboard
The main dashboard displays a high-level summary of information related to the organization’s data ingestion, alerting, and event activity over time. Security professionals can use this dashboard to access a timeline of security events—such as a spike in failed login attempts— to identify threat trends across log sources, devices, IP addresses, and physical locations.

Rule detections dashboard
The rule detections dashboard provides statistics related to incidents with the highest occurrences, severities, and detections over time. Security analysts can use this dashboard to access a list of all the alerts triggered by a specific detection rule, such as a rule designed to alert whenever a user opens a known malicious attachment from an email. Analysts then use those statistics to help manage recurring incidents and establish mitigation tactics to reduce an organization's level of risk.

User sign in overview dashboard
The user sign in overview dashboard provides information about user access behavior across the organization. Security analysts can use this dashboard to access a list of all user sign-in events to identify unusual user activity, such as a user signing in from multiple locations at the same time. This information is then used to help mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to user accounts and the organization’s applications.

Glossary terms from module 3
Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 3
Chronicle: A cloud-native tool designed to retain, analyze, and search data

Incident response: An organization’s quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the damage, and correct the effects of a security breach

Log: A record of events that occur within an organization’s systems 

Metrics: Key technical attributes such as response time, availability, and failure rate, which are used to assess the performance of a software application

Operating system (OS): The interface between computer hardware and the user

Playbook: A manual that provides details about any operational action

Security information and event management (SIEM): An application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization

Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR): A collection of applications, tools, and workflows that use automation to respond to security events

SIEM tools: A software platform that collects, analyzes, and correlates security data from various sources across your IT infrastructure that helps identify and respond to security threats in real-time, investigate security incidents, and comply with security regulations

Splunk Cloud: A cloud-hosted tool used to collect, search, and monitor log data

Splunk Enterprise: A self-hosted tool used to retain, analyze, and search an organization's log data to provide security information and alerts in real-time

More about playbooks
Previously, you learned that playbooks are tools used by cybersecurity professionals to identify and respond to security issues. In this reading, you’ll learn more about playbooks and their purpose in the field of cybersecurity. 

Playbook overview
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action. Essentially, a playbook provides a predefined and up-to-date list of steps to perform when responding to an incident.

An analyst using a playbook.
Playbooks are accompanied by a strategy. The strategy outlines expectations of team members who are assigned a task, and some playbooks also list the individuals responsible. The outlined expectations are accompanied by a plan. The plan dictates how the specific task outlined in the playbook must be completed.

Playbooks should be treated as living documents, which means that they are frequently updated by security team members to address industry changes and new threats. Playbooks are generally managed as a collaborative effort, since security team members have different levels of expertise.

Updates are often made if:

A failure is identified, such as an oversight in the outlined policies and procedures, or in the playbook itself. 

There is a change in industry standards, such as changes in laws or regulatory compliance.

The cybersecurity landscape changes due to evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

Types of playbooks
Playbooks sometimes cover specific incidents and vulnerabilities. These might include ransomware, vishing, business email compromise (BEC), and other attacks previously discussed. Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are very common, but they are not the only types of playbooks organizations develop. 

Each organization has a different set of playbook tools, methodologies, protocols, and procedures that they adhere to, and different individuals are involved at each step of the response process, depending on the country they are in. For example, incident notification requirements from government-imposed laws and regulations, along with compliance standards, affect the content in the playbooks. These requirements are subject to change based on where the incident originated and the type of data affected. 

Incident and vulnerability response playbooks
Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are commonly used by entry-level cybersecurity professionals. They are developed based on the goals outlined in an organization’s business continuity plan. A business continuity plan is an established path forward allowing a business to recover and continue to operate as normal, despite a disruption like a security breach.

These two types of playbooks are similar in that they both contain predefined and up-to-date lists of steps to perform when responding to an incident. Following these steps is necessary to ensure that you, as a security professional, are adhering to legal and organizational standards and protocols. These playbooks also help minimize errors and ensure that important actions are performed within a specific timeframe.

When an incident, threat, or vulnerability occurs or is identified, the level of risk to the organization depends on the potential damage to its assets. A basic formula for determining the level of risk is that risk equals the likelihood of a threat. For this reason, a sense of urgency is essential. Following the steps outlined in playbooks is also important if any forensic task is being carried out. Mishandling data can easily compromise forensic data, rendering it unusable. 

Common steps included in incident and vulnerability playbooks include: 

Preparation

Detection

Analysis

Containment

Eradication

Recovery from an incident 

Additional steps include performing post-incident activities, and a coordination of efforts throughout the investigation and incident and vulnerability response stages.

Preparation

Description
Before incidents occur, mitigate potential impacts on the organization by documenting, establishing staffing plans, and educating users.

Detection and analysis

Description
Detect and analyze events by implementing defined processes and appropriate technology.

Containment

Description
Prevent further damage and reduce immediate impact of incidents.

Eradication and recovery

Description
Completely remove artifacts of the incident so that an organization can return to normal operations.

Post-incident activity

Description
Document the incident, inform organizational leadership, and apply lessons learned.

Coordination

Description
Report incidents and share information throughout the response process, based on established standards.

Playbooks, SIEM tools, and SOAR tools
Previously, you learned that security teams encounter threats, risks, vulnerabilities, and incidents on a regular basis and that they follow playbooks to address security-related issues. In this reading, you will learn more about playbooks, including how they are used in security information and event management (SIEM) and security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR). 

Playbooks and SIEM tools
Playbooks are used by cybersecurity teams in the event of an incident. Playbooks help security teams respond to incidents by ensuring that a consistent list of actions are followed in a prescribed way, regardless of who is working on the case. Playbooks can be very detailed and may include flow charts and tables to clarify what actions to take and in which order. Playbooks are also used for recovery procedures in the event of a ransomware attack. Different types of security incidents have their own playbooks that detail who should take what action and when. 

Playbooks are generally used alongside SIEM tools. If, for example, unusual user behavior is flagged by a SIEM tool, a playbook provides analysts with instructions about how to address the issue. 

Playbooks and SOAR tools
Playbooks are also used with SOAR tools. SOAR tools are similar to SIEM tools in that they are used for threat monitoring. SOAR is a piece of software used to automate repetitive tasks generated by tools such as a SIEM or managed detection and response (MDR). For example, if a user attempts to log into their computer too many times with the wrong password, a SOAR would automatically block their account to stop a possible intrusion. Then, analysts would refer to a playbook to take steps to resolve the issue.

Terms and definitions from Course 2, Module 4
Incident response: An organization’s quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the damage, and correct the effects of a security breach

Playbook: A manual that provides details about any operational action
